# 3. Mediator API

Execution of any action is made through the `IMediator` interface (does not matter if it is from the client-side or server-side). 
Its lifetime is set as scoped by default.
Mediator itself is designed to prevent throwing an exception during action executions. All exceptions are caught and returned find status wrapper (Response).

## Response
Response object represents the status of the action whether the action was processed successfully. Contains error messages added to response during processing or caught during processing. Additionally contains also Result Collection holding results from one or more handlers (depends on configuration) and results added by middlewares.

## Execute or Dispatch action with a status response
The very basic methods on `IMediator` are `Dispatch` and `Execute`. These two methods return the Response object with the status and all results from processing. These methods use the async-await pattern, so it is up t you if you want to dispatch the method and do not wait for a response or Execute a request and wait for a response. 
The awaiting is useful for example in cases you need to ensure that action parameters passed validation or authorization rules.

### Keeping types during sending over HTTP
In Client-Server usage the data sent through the network are serialized and deserialized into the same object type. This keeps you a possibility to use type checking `mediatorResponse.Result is MyCustomHandlerResult` or to use property attributes for custom purposes like shared validation rules on client and server.

`IMediator.Dispatch` - Executes messages without expected result. Is applicable to actions implementing interface `IMediatorAction`, `IMessage` or derived interfaces.

`IMediator.Execute` - Executes Request for which you expect a response with data. The Response contains one extra parameter named `Result` which has a type defined as action generic argument. Is applicable for actions implementing interface `IMediatorAction<TResult>`, `IRequest<TResult>` or derived interfaces. 
If data are not available for any reason, the status returned in the response will always indicate failure.

## ExecuteUnhandled and DispatchUnhandled
These two methods `IMediator.DispatchUnhandled` and `IMediator.ExecuteUnhandled` were added later in mediator API to cover cases where we explicitly expect that process will be interrupted by exception in case that action processing fails. Both methods do not return the Response wrapper object.

`IMediator.DispatchUnhandled` - Does not return data, but the only task that can be awaited.

`IMediator.ExecuteUnhandled` - Returns awaitable task returning data which returns result object directly. In case of error, exception will be thrown.

### In-process exceptions
The methods Execute and Dispatch catch all exceptions and serve them as error messages in the Response. On the other hand, the methods ExecuteUnhandled and DispatchUnhandled do not catch any exception and even further if any error message is returned, then the mediator throws it as MediatorExecutionException.
You can use methods ExecuteUnhandled and DispatchUnhandled when you need to handle the original exceptions on your own or you need to gain more details than error message only.
Keep in mind that this works only in the same process where the exception was thrown. If you would transfer the exception over the network in case of Client-Server usage, then only MediatorExecutionException will be thrown and you won't be able to process the original exception. 
Exceptions aren't serialized for network transfer because this could be potentially exploited by hackers. 


## Execute and get data or null
The alternative method for executing requests is `IMediator.ExecuteOrDefault`. This is suitable for developers who want to indicate a successful state by data, unsuccessfully state by null, and does not care about error messages because they use global handling in their own mediator middleware.
The dark side of this fact is, that **types that are unknown or unavailable on client won't be deserialized** and exceptions will be thrown. 

## Events
Mediator exposes two events `IMediator.ActionStarted` and `IMediator.ActionCompleted` notifying when some action stats processing or ends their processing. This can be handy in cases of UI components when you for example need to show a spinner if one or more mediator actions are executed.
Arguments for both events contain parameters:

`Action` - Action instance for which was the event published

`RunningActions` - Collection of all actions which are still under processing (Except the affected one)

Simple spinner implementation:
```
@if(_showSpinner){
    <div class="spinner"></div>
}
@implements IDisposable
@code {
    private bool _showSpinner;

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        Mediator.ActionStarted += OnStarted;
        Mediator.ActionCompleted += OnFinished;
    }
    public void Dispose()
    {
        Mediator.ActionStarted -= OnStarted;
        Mediator.ActionCompleted -= OnFinished;
    }

    private void OnStarted(object? sender, ActionStartedEventArgs args)
    {
        if (!_showSpinner)
        {
            _showSpinner = true;
            StateHasChanged();
        }
    }
    private void OnFinished(object? sender, ActionCompletedEventArgs args)
    {
        if (_showSpinner && args.RunningActions.Count == 0)
        {
            _showSpinner = false;
            StateHasChanged();
        }
    }
}
```
