# 6. Middlewares

Middleware provides you the possibility to intercept action execution. With middlewares you can achieve for example: caching, auditing, logging, pre-processing, post-processing, transactions committing...

You can register one or multiple middlewares to pipelines:
``` 
services.AddMediator()
    .AddPipeline<...>() // Or .AddDefaultPipeline()
        .Use<ErrorHandlingMiddleware()
        .Use<AuditMiddleware()
        ....
```

The simplest middleware implementing `IMediatorMiddleware` looks like this:
```
public class DummyMiddleware : IMediatorMiddleware
{
    public async Task Invoke(MediatorContext context, MiddlewareDelegate next)
    {
        // Here place code executed before handler call (before next pipeline middleware call)
        await next(context);
        // Here place code executed after handler call (after next pipeline middleware call)
    }
}
```
The function `next()` is a delegate that runs the next middleware registered in the pipelines.
Do not forget to ensure that you execute `await next(context);`, otherwise, neither next middleware nor handler would be executed.

The `MediatorContext` contains properties like `Action` or `CancellationToken` providing more details about current action execution.

Handler executing is also realised by build-in middleware .UseSingleHandler() used as default. For MediatorClient it is .UseHttpClient() by default.

## Execution Middlewares
Execution middlewares are ending pipeline execution. Any other middlewares registered in the pipeline after execution middleware will be simply ignored. 
The difference is that execution middleware does not call the `next()` delegate.

Mediator library contains a few build-in middlewares to cover your needs. 

_If you would need to create your own middleware executing handlers, we recommend implementing abstract class `ExecutionMiddleware` containing handling for Request action types and Message action types. If you wouldn't implement it, HandlerExistenceChecker wouldn't be able to check whether all actions have the exact amount of matching handlers_

For the other cases, you can implement the interface `IExecutionMiddleware`.

## Middleware Lifetime
By default, all middlewares are registered with `ServiceLifetime.Scoped`. But you can override this behavior and set it as transient or singleton:
``` 
services.AddMediator()
    .AddPipeline<...>() // Or .AddDefaultPipeline()
        .Use<...>(ServiceLifeTime.Singleton)
        ...
```
NOTE: _You can not register the same middleware type with different ServiceLifetime even if they are defined in different pipelines._