# 6.1. Ready to use middlewares

These middlewares can be registered via full name syntax like `.Use<SingleHandlerExecutionMiddleware>()` or you can use shortcuts like `.UseSingleHandler()` available from nuget namespaces.

## UseSingleHandler (SingleHandlerExecutionMiddleware)
From nuget: **Pipaslot.Mediator** since version **4.0.0**

Used as the default handler for In-process mediator scope.
Executes only a single handler per action, throws a MediatorException in case that none or more than one handler is defined for a single action.
Usage:
``` 
services.AddMediator()
    .AddPipeline<...>() // Or .AddDefaultPipeline()
        .UseSingleHandler()
        ...
```

## UseConcurrentMultiHandler (MultiHandlerConcurrentExecutionMiddleware)
From nuget:** Pipaslot.Mediator** since version **4.0.0**

Allows you to execute one or more handlers. Throws MediatorException if no handler exists for the action.
Can be used in cases where you have specific requirements for executing multiple functions but middleware does not fit your needs. All the handlers are executed simultaneously but the mediator awaits all before providing a response.
Usage:
``` 
services.AddMediator()
    .AddPipeline<...>() // Or .AddDefaultPipeline()
        .UseConcurrentMultiHandler()
        ...
```

## UseSequenceMultiHandler (MultiHandlerSequenceExecutionMiddleware)
From nuget: **Pipaslot.Mediator** since version **4.0.0**

Allows you to execute one or more handlers. Throws MediatorException if no handler exists for the action.
Executes handlers one by one. If you need to provide an order of execution then implement interface `ISequenceHandler` in all your handlers. If you do not specify interface `ISequenceHandler`, then the default order is (int.MaxValue / 2).
If multiple handlers have the same order, then they are queued randomly.
Usage:
``` 
services.AddMediator()
    .AddPipeline<...>() // Or .AddDefaultPipeline()
        .UseSequenceMultiHandler()
        ...
```

## UseReduceDuplicateProcessing (ReduceDuplicateProcessingMiddleware)
From nuget: **Pipaslot.Mediator** since version **4.0.0**

Reduce duplicate action executions for actions with the same data. It DOES NOT cache your data, but only returns the same task that is currently under execution to requestor threads. Once the task is completed, all threads will be notified and the same data will be shared. This middleware reduces server stress if you have issues with duplicate executions for the same messages or requests. In the case of client-server usage, it reduces the amount of duplicated server requests which are requested simultaneously.
It works perfectly with [C# record types](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/whats-new/tutorials/records). If you want to apply on class types, then you have to override the method `GetHashCode` on your actions.
Usage:
``` 
services.AddMediator()
    .AddPipeline<...>() // Or .AddDefaultPipeline()
        .UseReduceDuplicateProcessing()
        ...
```

## UseHttpClient (HttpClientExecutionMiddleware)
From nuget: **Pipaslot.Mediator.Http** since version **4.0.0**

Used as default handler when configuring MediatorClient.
Forwards actions over HTTP to another server. Requires to have HttpClient configured. You can configure HTTP client via the ASP.NET Core HttpClient factory pattern available on your DI.
Usage:
```
// Configure HTTP client for HttpClientExecutionMiddleware
services.AddHttpClient<HttpClientExecutionMiddleware>(client =>
    {
        // Configure HTTP client factory
    })

services.AddMediator()
    .AddPipeline<...>() // Or .AddDefaultPipeline()
        .UseHttpClient()
        ...
```

## UseExceptionLogging (MediatorExceptionLoggingMiddleware)
From nuget: **Pipaslot.Mediator.Http** since version **4.0.0**

Logs all exceptions as Errors via service `ILogger` and provides information about action type and its parameters. 
OperationCanceledException is logged as a warning only.
Usage:
``` 
services.AddMediator()
    .AddPipeline<...>() // Or .AddDefaultPipeline()
        .UseExceptionLogging()
        ...
```

## Notifications in server response
From nuget: **Pipaslot.Mediator** since version **4.2.0**

Provide a way how to propagate notifications from server to client where they can be handled and presented to the user. A typical example can be displaying a warning or successful operation notification after server processing.

### Server
Register middleware on your pipeline with `.UseNotificationProvider()`. Inject service `INotificationProvider` where the message should be produced and use methods `AddInformation()`, `AddSuccess()`, `AddWarning()` or `AddError()` for attaching to the result collection.

### Client
Register middleware on your pipeline with `.UseNotificationReceiver()`. Inject service `INotificationReceiver` where the message should be presented. The component will be notified about new notification via event `INotificationReceiver.NotificationReceived`.
```
@implements IDisposable
@inject INotificationReceiver NotificationReceiver
@code {
    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        NotificationReceiver.NotificationReceived += OnNotificationReceived;
    }
    public void Dispose()
    {
        NotificationReceiver.NotificationReceived -= OnNotificationReceived;
    }
    private void OnNotificationReceived(object? sender, NotificationReceivedEventArgs args)
    {
        foreach (var notification in args.Notifications)
        {
            // Process new notification
        }
        StateHasChanged();
    }
}
```